# Python Homework Solution: The financial/budgeting analysis of PyBank data and election/voting analysis of PyPoll data

## Background

I wrote python code to analyze 2 real application scenarios: a company's financial data, and candidates' election data.

### Before reading the homework csv data files and coding in Python

1. I created a new repository in GitHub for this project called `Python-Challenge`. 

2. Inside the new repository:
    * I cloned the new repository to my computer.
    * Inside my local Git repository, I create a folder for each Python assignment and named them PyBank and PyPoll.
    * In each folder that I created (PyBank and PyPoll), I add the following content:
      -	A new file called main.py, which is the main Python script that runs for each analysis.
      -	A Resources folder that contains the CSV files I used; budget_data.csv and election_data.csv, respectively. 
      -	An Analysis folder that contains the text file that will store the results from each analysis; financial_analysis.txt and election_analysis.txt, respectively.
    * I pushed these changes back to GitHub. 

### Files including data used for analysis, and the solution output text files

* PyBank/Resources/budget_data.csv - Ran Python code on this PyBank assignment data to generate the final solution output.  
* PyBank/Analysis/financial_analysis.txt is the final solution output for PyBank assignment.

* PyPoll/Resources/election_data.csv - Ran Python code on this PyPoll assignment data to generate the final solution output.  
* PyBank/Analysis/election_analysis.txt is the final solution output for PyPoll assignment.

### Python coding files,*.py

* PyBank/main.py - Ran this Python code to generate the final analysis and print the output for PyBank assignment

* PyPoll/main.py - Ran this Python code to generate the final analysis and print the output for PyPoll assignment 

## Analysis Steps
In the PyBank assignment we were tasked with creating a Python script to analyze the financial records of a company, and were given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv. The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses".
1. I created a Python script that analyzed the records to calculate each of the following values:
	* The total number of months included in the dataset
	* The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
	* The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes
	* The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
	* The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
2. The final script printed the analysis output to the terminal and exported a text file with the results to the Analysis folder.

In this PyPoll assignment, we were tasked with helping a small/rural town modernize its vote-counting process and were given a set of poll data called election_data.csv. The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". 
1. I created a Python script that analyzed the votes and calculated each of the following values:
	* The total number of votes cast
	* A complete list of candidates who received votes
	* The percentage of votes each candidate won
	* The total number of votes each candidate won
	* The winner of the election based on popular vote
2. The final script printed the analysis output to the terminal and exported a text file with the results to the Analysis folder.

## References

* Data for the 2 datasets wer generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and are intended for educational purposes only.
* Our instructor, Ms. Alexandria Kalika, provided assistance during office hours for the PyPoll analysis.
